So now let's look at a few more things that we can do with the big decimal class, such as alternative
ways of instantiating a big decimal, which you should prefer not to use under most circumstances.
But let's just take a look at them and then a few other methods as well.
So see here, we'll clear this out.
So very, very quickly.
Let's just see that we can create a big decimal.
Let's create a variable like number one.
And let's instantiated here.
So instead of using a string which should always be your preferred approach to creating a big decimal
if you have any choice in the matter at all, right, so you can always do this.
This will give maximum precision in your numbers with big, big decimal.
But let's say for some reason that you can't do this or don't want to do this.
So we'll take a quick look at some of the alternative constructors that do exist.
So there are a number of them we can pass in a character array, which is actually pretty much just
as good as a string, except maybe a little less convenient.
I'm not going to show how to do that, but each digit of the number would be one element in this character.
And by the way, we haven't really learned officially how to make arrays yet anyway.
So we'll come back to that in a later, in a later lesson.
All right, so you can you character A's and strings.
You can obviously initialize with another big integer, but then you also can pass in some of the primitive
types, such as a double or an entry long.
So let's see what that might look like.
So if we were to pass in a double, let's do three point one four one five nine two like so and then
close that.
So there you go.
So there's a short version of Pi being used to initialize the big decimal.
And so let me just restate for like the third or fourth time.
You should prefer not to do it this way because before actually being used to initialize this big decimal,
this number gets represented in the computer's memory as a primitive double.
And we've already seen that the computer has to essentially approximate this fractional component of
the number before it can store it in binary.
And the act of doing so opens us up to the possibility of losing some precision.
In other words, you end up with an approximation.
OK.
And so we just want to avoid that whenever possible.
The whole point of using a big decimal is to get maximum accuracy.
And if you do something like this, initializing a big decimal from a primitive floating type such as
double or float, you're off to a bad start if your goal was to achieve maximum accuracy.
Now it could be that that's, you know, the best that you can do and you want to still use big decimal
so that you don't lose any further accuracy or precision as you start to carry out your various math
operations.
And you know, that's a valid point.
But just use a string whenever possible.
All right.
And then if we wanted to initialize with a float, you could just put an f behind there.
And bam, now you're initializing with a float.
It's as simple as that.
And then, of course, you can also do integers or shorts or whatever.
By the way, you could also do something like, let's say we want to create a short.
My short equals one two three four.
So then we could initialize with this variable here.
So you can do that as well.
And then you can change this over to whatever type you want.
So I won't be able to make that a byte because that's too big, but I could do 100 here.
And so now, of course, I probably should be changing this, this variable name to to my byte now.
All right.
So I think you get the gist.
You can initialize the big decimal with any of the typical numeric primitives types as well as strings
and characters prefer string.
All right, so enough of that.
So now let's look at a few other methods that exist on the big decimal, besides those for doing math
operations.
So we'll do a number one dot, and we'll just take a quick look at a few of the useful one.
So there are methods for converting from a big decimal back to other numeric types.
So, for example, you could get a bite value out of a big decimal.
So if I call this, I can capture this with an option command fee and then I can print this be just
like so.
There's that one hundred and now it's a bite again.
Now, obviously, this will only be meaningful if the value in the big decimal can actually be represented
as a bite.
So let's see what happens.
I'm going to I'm going to get rid of this, my bait thing, and I'm going to initialize this with a
string and then use something that cannot easily be represented as a byte, such as three point one
four one five nine two.
Let's see what happens here.
So we're telling Big Decimal to take this number and give us a byte equivalent of it, so look what
it did it it just stripped off the fractional parts because you can't encode fractions in a byte.
So it just took that off and gave us the three.
So it did the best that it could do there.
What would happen, though, if we were to initialize this big decimal with a number that is outside
of the range or beyond the range of a byte, such as one zero two four?
If you'll recall, the range of a byte is minus 128 to positive 127.
So 1024 would be well outside the range of a byte.
Let's see what happens here.
OK, so it just becomes a zero.
All right.
Now there are other methods that we could use, though, and let's take a look at some of those.
In fact, what I'll do here is let's just replace this, and we'll just directly refer to some of these
other methods.
OK, so we could get the byte value, we could get the double value.
Let's try that one.
All right.
So that works great because 1024 as well within the range of a double.
And then obviously, we could have put some decimal points on here as well.
Not going to bother to do that.
I think you get it.
So there's getting the double value and then there's and you can get an end.
Or a float?
All right, and then the maybe the last method that I want to talk about really quickly here is the
two string method, which we've actually already been using extensively every time we pass a big decimal
into a print line method that is resulting in the two string method of the big decimal class getting
called.
That's how these values are getting printed to the screen.
I just wanted to call out explicitly, though, that there is a two string method.
And so if you ever needed to convert a big decimal into a string explicitly, you could even do something
like capturing that string.
My string equals number one to string.
And so now you have just converted the value of a big decimal into a string.
Now, in this case, it looks kind of like a useless thing to do because you started off in this particular
case with a string in the first place.
But regardless of how you initialized the big decimal internally, it will no longer be a string anymore
until you call to string to have it converted to a string.
So there can be a number of good reasons why you might want to do that, especially when you want to
present big decimals and their values to a user in an application or something.
All right.
And the last thing I want to mention, which I'm going to just throw into this last little bit on on
Big Decimal is the big decimal class has a sibling, which is called big integer.
I don't have a ton to say about big integer, but I'll just briefly discuss it.
So just as we can create a big decimal, we can create a big integer like so my end, and it works pretty
much the exact same way.
So we can initialize it with a string.
So the whole point of big integer is that it is capable of representing integers much larger than any
of the other primitive data types for numbers.
So you will recall that the largest primitive numerical type that we learned was a long and a long has
64 bits.
So if you needed to still have numbers even larger than what a long is capable of representing, which
is a really large number, I don't even remember what that number was quintillion or something.
If you needed for some reason to be able to handle numbers larger than that big integer would be the
way to go.
Incidentally, you may also have been wondering, OK, well, how is Big Decimal actually able to get
around the rounding problems?
I'm not going to go into much detail on that.
However, I will say that internally the big decimal actually uses a big integer, and the basic approach
that is used is that when we create a big decimal to represent a number such as, let's say, three
point one four one five nine two, basically what ends up happening is that the big decimal class basically
takes that decimal and moves it until it's left with just an integer.
OK.
So in other words, it goes from three point one four blah blah blah.
Two three one four one five nine two.
OK.
So that decimal will have been moved in this case to the right until you're left with an integer.
Obviously, it has to keep track of how many times it moved that decimal, though.
OK.
So that when it's done doing its calculations, it can put the decimal back.
But by converting a number with a fractional component into a number with no fractional components suddenly
maintaining precision, it becomes a lot easier.
And doing all the math at that point is pretty straightforward as well.
And then all that has to be done is to put the decimal point back.
Once the math operations are done and it stores these newly created integers inside of a big integer,
and because of that, the integer values can be ridiculously big.
Right?
Thus, the term big integer.
So that's the gist of how Big Decimal is able to get around the problem of precision and rounding that
the floating point primitive data types cannot get around.
OK, so it's actually kind of pretty simple and straightforward, actually.
So I think that's going to wrap up our conversation on Big Decimal and its sibling, Big Integer, and
I will see you in the next one.